

New Thoughts: (Run21)

- My latest run seems to be much more promissing, thought I have yet to see the
  conclusion as I type this. Atleast it seems to be exploring mroe of the state
  space, and isn't gettting stuck on a trivial solution.
  
- I attribute this to two things: One is my control point based fitness function,
  which forces the algorythim to pay coloser atention to the more "intresting"
  parts of the image. 
  
- The other beign that I was previously clamping my fitness function two low. This
  caused many more images to report the same fitness, so the algorythim could not
  distinguish between them. If you look at my runs of randomly genrated images, you
  see that most image report minimum fitness.

  [Rand06.txt] [Rand07.txt]

- I also decressed the smiliarty threshold, till I could generate multiple species
  at the first generation. I think, if the algorythim starts with a more diverse
  populaiton, it is easyer to maintain that diversity. This in turn allows the program
  to explore more possable avineues of evolution.

        //threshold for inclusion in a species
        private double compat_tresh = 0.5;
        private double compat_mod = 0.05;
        
        
What To Do Next:

- I need to take care of the previous items listed above, and revert back to the old
  fitness function, so that I can compare the two runs with only the fitness function
  changing.
  
- This should also be an opertnuity for me to implement a slightly faster algorythim,
  in that I can render the images in a seperate thread, as this should not effect
  the preformance of the algorythim itself.
  
- If my susppissions are correct, then the the change in fitness fuction is the most
  improtant aspect. In which case, my next goal should be to develop an even better
  fitness funciton.
  
- I have a few ideas for further improvments to the fitness funciton, several involve
  implementing the SIFT algorythim, which should be doable, as well as the Descrete
  Forieer Transform (DCT).
  
- I still want to generate more random images using the new network, particuarly with
  recurent connections, as that aspect has changed the most. It's also a good test
  of the fitness function, to enshure it's working as intended.
